All right. So, now we're going to move into a new topic,
we're leaving the denormalization and normalization.
But these still have much to do with that again because those are
the most important concepts in data modelling for relational databases.
So, this will have to do with that,
but it's a little bit, it's utilizing those concepts.
So, we're going to talk about fact and dimension tables.
So, these work together to create an organized data model.
While fact and dimension tables are not created differently in the DDL,
their conceptual and extremely important for organization.
So, again these are different tables you create in
the sense that you're going to do a different create table statement,
but they are different in the fact of how
we're conceptually understanding our data model.
So, again fact and dimension tables work together to solve business problems.
You will find at least one or more fact tables for each dimension table.
They are created the same way as a conceptual concept of data modelling.
Fact and dimension table concepts will help us understand star and snowflake schemas,
and we'll get to that in the next couple of slides.
Fact tables consists of measurements,
metrics or facts in a business process.
Fact tables are made up of facts.
Events that have actually happened.
Think of a customer transaction and how much they spent.
That transaction ID might be used as a key in
a dimension table to tell us more about the customers and the individual items bought.
Fact tables can be aggregations of data,
but are not meant to be updated in place like a dimension table would.
Fact tables normally have ints or numbers and
we'll see an example coming up. Dimension table.
A structure that categorizes facts and measures
in order to enable users to answer business questions.
Dimensions are people, products, places, and time.
Dimension tables are all the other pieces of
information that are not included in the fact table.
Customer information, information about products et cetera.
Normally, textual information or numbers that are
not used for analysis like year or date.
Each dimension table will have
one or more fact tables joined together with a foreign key.
Implementing different schemas.
Building off of our conceptual knowledge of fact and dimension tables,
the schema that fits with this is the star schema.
So, two of the most popular because of their simplicity,
data marts schemas for data warehouses are the star schema and snowflake schema.
This is building off of our conceptual knowledge of the fact and dimension tables,
and the schema that fits with this which is the star schema.